[ENG-29957] feat: add sql crud guides (#928)
aziontech/docs: src/content/docs/en/pages/guides/edge-sql/create-database.mdx

---
title: How to manage an Edge SQL database
description: Learn how to create, list, and delete databases from Edge SQL using the Azion REST API.
meta_tags: edge sql, sql, database, crud
namespace: docs_sql_database_crud
permalink: /documentation/products/guides/manage-databases-edge-sql/
---

import Button from '~/components/Button.astro'
import Badge from '~/components/Badge.astro'

<Badge variant="accent">

>   Preview

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Preview
```

<Button href="/en/documentation/products/store/edge-sql/" text="go to Edge SQL reference" variant="secondary"></Button>

After creating a database, read [How to create an Edge SQL query](/en/documentation/products/guides/create-query-edge-sql/) to populate your database.

---

## Creating a database

Run the following `POST` request in your terminal, replacing `[TOKEN VALUE]` with your [personal token](/en/documentation/products/guides/personal-tokens/) and `name` with the desired database name to create a new database:

```bash
curl --location 'https://api.azion.com/v4/edge_sql/databases' \
--header 'Authorization: Token [TOKEN VALUE]' \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--data '{
   "name": "my-database"
}'
```

You should receive the following response:

```json
{
  "state": "pending",
  "data": {
    "id": 118,
    "name": "my-database",
    "client_id": "6832h",
    "status": "creating",
    "created_at": "2024-04-18T11:22:59.468536Z",
    "updated_at": "2024-04-18T11:22:59.468586Z",
    "deleted_at": null
  }
}
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Maybe add some information about this action not being instantaneous. When the status changes from pending to created  you will be able to use the created database.

> 

Author: ```suggestion

:::note
The creation of a database isn't instantaneous. You can run `GET` requests to check when the `status` param changes to `created`, meaning you can already use the database.
:::
```

```bash
curl --location 'https://api.azion.com/v4/edge_sql/databases/{id_database}' \
--header 'Authorization: Token [TOKEN VALUE]'
```

You should receive the following response:

```json
{
  "data": {
    "id": 118,
    "name": "my-database",
    "client_id": "6832h",
    "status": "created",
    "created_at": "2024-04-18T11:22:59.468536Z",
    "updated_at": "2024-04-18T11:23:18.492883Z",
    "deleted_at": null
  }
}
```

This endpoint lists only the information regarding the specific database whose ID you've provided.

---

## Deleting a database

Run the following `DELETE` request in your terminal, replacing `[TOKEN VALUE]` with your [personal token](/en/documentation/products/guides/personal-tokens/) and `{id_database}` with the ID of the database you want to delete:

```bash
curl --location --request DELETE 'https://api.azion.com/v4/edge_sql/databases/{id_database}' \
--header 'Authorization: Token [TOKEN VALUE]'
```

:::note

> This action can't be undone. After deleting a database, you won't be able to retrieve its information.

Author: ```suggestion
This action isn't instantaneous, but once complete, it can't be undone. After deleting a database, you won't be able to retrieve its information.
```

:::

> 

Reviewer 2: > Maybe add some information about this action not being instantaneous. When the status changes from pending to created you will be able to use the created database.

The same applies here but for the delete

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---
title: How to manage an Edge SQL database
description: Learn how to create, list, and delete databases from Edge SQL using the Azion REST API.
meta_tags: edge sql, sql, database, crud
namespace: docs_sql_database_crud
permalink: /documentation/products/guides/manage-databases-edge-sql/
---

import Button from '~/components/Button.astro'
import Badge from '~/components/Badge.astro'

<Badge variant="accent">
  Preview
</Badge>

> **Edge SQL** allows you to create databases so you can insert data. This guide covers how to create, list, and delete a database using the [Azion API](https://api.azion.com).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Edge SQL** allows you to create and manage relational databases. This guide covers how to create, list, and delete a database using the [Azion API](https://api.azion.com).
```
